---
layout: post
title: "Discovering Your IKIGAI: Foundation of Strategic Job Search"
description: "Learn how to discover your IKIGAI to guide your tech career. Find the intersection of passion, skills, mission, and profession for strategic job searching."
tags: [ikigai, job search, career strategy, self discovery, career planning, computer and information systems, tech careers, personal development, job hunting, career advice, professional growth, it management, job jotivation, career goals, finding purpose]
author: eugene
categories: [Self-Knowledge, IKIGAI]
comments : True
render_with_liquid: false
image:
    path: assets/img/ikigai/ai_draws_ikigai.png
    alt: "IKIGAI diagram showing intersection of passion, mission, profession and vocation"
---
### Discovering Your IKIGAI: The Foundation of a Strategic Job Search

Embarking on a job search without a clear understanding of yourself can feel like navigating a ship without a compass. To steer your career in the right direction, it is crucial to know what truly drives you. This is where the concept of IKIGAI comes into play. Derived from Japanese philosophy, IKIGAI refers to the intersection of what you love, what you are good at, what the world needs, and what you can be paid for. Understanding your IKIGAI can provide invaluable insights that guide your job search and career planning.

#### My IKIGAI: Computer and Information Systems Manager

For me, the IKIGAI test revealed that my ideal role lies in computer and information systems management. This includes planning, directing, and coordinating activities in fields such as electronic data processing, information systems, system analysis, and computer programming. Understanding this has been transformative in shaping my job search strategy and aligning my career goals.

#### The Importance of Self-Knowledge in Job Search

1. **Clarity and Focus**: Knowing your IKIGAI brings clarity and focus to your job search. Instead of applying to every available position, you can target roles that align with your core passions, strengths, and values. This targeted approach increases your chances of finding a job that is not only satisfying but also sustainable in the long term.

2. **Enhanced Motivation**: When you pursue a career that aligns with your IKIGAI, your intrinsic motivation and enthusiasm naturally rise. This passion is evident to potential employers and can set you apart from other candidates. Your commitment and energy will shine through in interviews and your work performance, making you a more attractive candidate.

3. **Better Decision Making**: With a clear understanding of your IKIGAI, you can make more informed decisions about job offers and career moves. You'll have a solid framework for evaluating opportunities based on how well they align with your personal and professional goals. This reduces the risk of job dissatisfaction and burnout.

4. **Resilience in the Job Search**: The job search process can be daunting and filled with rejections. Knowing your IKIGAI helps you stay resilient and persistent. It serves as a reminder of your purpose and the bigger picture, keeping you motivated even during challenging times.

#### How to Discover Your IKIGAI

1. **Self-Reflection**: Spend time reflecting on your passions, skills, and values. Consider what activities make you lose track of time, what you excel at, and what gives you a sense of fulfillment.

2. **Seek Feedback**: Talk to friends, family, and colleagues who know you well. They can provide valuable insights into your strengths and potential career paths you might not have considered.

3. **Professional Assessments**: Utilize professional tools and assessments, such as the [IKIGAI test](https://ikigaitest.com), to gain a structured understanding of your strengths and interests. These tools can provide a starting point for deeper self-exploration.

4. **Experiment and Adapt**: Sometimes, discovering your IKIGAI requires trying different roles and industries. Be open to new experiences and willing to pivot based on what you learn about yourself.

#### **Share your IKIGAI results** at X:
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">All right, boys and girls! It&#39;s time for you to know your ikigai purpose! Go share your results! 🧡<a href="https://t.co/bqyaDh745n">https://t.co/bqyaDh745n</a> <a href="https://t.co/jIS6sdT4MG">pic.twitter.com/jIS6sdT4MG</a></p>&mdash; Eugene Leontev 🇬🇪🇺🇦 (@EugeneLeontev) <a href="https://twitter.com/EugeneLeontev/status/1801213013338296367?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2024</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

#### Conclusion

Understanding yourself is the cornerstone of a successful job search. The IKIGAI test can help you uncover your true calling, providing a solid foundation for your career strategy. By aligning your job search with your IKIGAI, you increase your chances of finding a role that is fulfilling, sustainable, and aligned with your core values. For me, this journey led to the realization that my IKIGAI lies in computer and information systems management, guiding my job search and career planning towards roles where I can truly thrive. Take the time to discover your IKIGAI – it’s an investment that will pay dividends in your professional and personal life.